Alright I am in the process of coding
the next section of the course for the
uploading a file for the image. And I ran
into a small problem and I thought I'll
take quick opportunity to show you how
to use the debugger. So here we are
seeing quite a bit of this already. I
have a controller method, PostMapping to
take in a post at the URL of recipe id image and he's going to take in the ID
value and a MultipartFile. Now to give you
a little preview of course I'm doing
test-driven development here and so I
set up my MockMultipart
File and I have that URL there. So
when I run this right now, we're getting a null
pointer error. Okay so I get a nested exception. Right,
there's a null pointer exception and
it's set at the in the ImageController. So
it's right here on this line and it could
be a couple of things that's causing that NPE.
So if I had a null id value coming in,
it could cause that to pop. A null file,
that shouldn't care. I don't think it
would care there or if the imageService
is null as well but looking at my test
coming in at my imageService there,
I am initializing the mocks and I am
injecting the imageService there. So
the way I built the ImageController is I do have a private final
property and I do require the imageService being ejected. So I'm expecting
that to happen by dependency injection. So that should not be null but I am
still getting that NPE. So what we can do
there is we want to inspect this a
little closer. So I'm clicking in the
gutter there to get that little dot
there and that's going to be a break
point for the debugger. Now if I come
down here and do a right-click and say
run as debug, I'm going to get it
up in the IntelliJ bugger here and
it's going to hit that break point and
stop. And now I can see okay my id value
is in fact getting set to 1 which is
good. I do have a mock file there but my
imageService is null.
Because I come back over here in my
test and I look and I am injecting
that and I am doing initMocks but what
I missed was adding mock here. So that
property wasn't annotated with a
Mockito Mock or as a Mockito mock.So now if
I come in and run this again I'm just
going to restart in the debugger, we can
now see that I actually have an
imageService there, its no longer null.
So you can see some of the Mockito stuff,
a little wrapper around there as we get
into the Mockito
but that's exactly what we want. Now if I
just hit the little play button here,
it's going to continue on and we can see
that I still have a problem on my code. Where I'm expecting a redirect. What am I
expecting here? So what  I'm expecting is found
but I'm getting a 200 there. So I got a
little bit more coding to do here as far
as making sure everything's right but
now I'm passed that null point error. So I
want to take a section and share that with
you because I get a lot of people that
get tripped up who don't know fully how to
utilize the debugger. So the debugger has
a lot of tools and as I progressed
through the course, I'll take more
opportunities to show you a little tips
and tricks like this how you can debug
your code inside the debugger. I am using
IntelliJ. That is my preference but
Eclipse and NetBeans both have
excellent to debuggers as well. So you can
do nearly the same thing. Almost the same
functionality there, clicking in the
gutter, set a deep debug breakpoint and
then right-clicking and saying running
in the debugger. So functionality in
other IDEs is going to be very very
similar.